Occasionally the tip of the round might lie to you. Don't panic, this is normal.
To defeat the slaughter demon, shoot at it until it dies.
Sometimes you won't be able to avoid dying no matter how good you are at the game. Try not to stress too much about it.
When a round ends nearly everything about it is lost forever, leave your salt behind with it.
Killing the entire sector isn't fun except when it is.
You can win a pulse rifle from the arcade machine. Honest.
Just like real life the entropy of the game can only increase with time. If things aren't on fire yet, just wait.
The more obscure and underused a game mechanic is, the less likely your victims are to be able to deal with it.
Space is cold and it will quickly freeze you to death if you don't protect yourself. This isn't how thermodynamics really works but just go with it.
Cleanbot.
Sometimes a round will just be a bust. C'est la vie.
This is a game that is constantly being developed for. Expect things to be added, removed, fixed, and broken on a daily basis.
It's fun to try and predict the round type from the tip of the round message.
The bird remembers.
Your sprite represents your hitbox, so that afro makes you easier to kill. The sacrifices we make for style.
Sometimes admins will just do stuff. Roll with it.
The remake will never come out.
Plenty of things that aren't traditionally considered weapons can still be used to slowly brutalize someone to death, get creative!
DEATH IS IMMINENT!
This game is older than most of the people playing it.
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Just the tip?
Some people are unable to read text on a game where half of it is based on text.
There are at least 11 ways to get through plastic flaps. How many can you name?
FEED ME A STRAY CAT
Most items have names longer than "soap".
Ask and you shall receive.
Top Ten Goliath Moments!!!
Sometimes your ship will randomly disappear or obliterate you or get cleaved in half or any combination of the above. Don't dock to a planet at the same time as someone else or undock as someone is docking.
Go on. Saw off those beautiful Hunter's Pride stocks. The Huntsman is watching.
The Drinkening has put countless shiptester's basic reading compehension to the test. Will you succumb?
No, going really really fast through an electric storm won't render you immune.
None of you would survive the uptime drought.
Innumberable frontiersmen have died valiantly in a subshuttle chokepoint attempting to board. Sometimes, a direct subshuttle dock isn't the best tactical move.
Full-body prosthesis are still biological and have normal blood. Don't pump a full bag of coolant into their veins, you.
The shotgun may never miss, but it has low armour penetration with buckshot.
When your gun gives off a pathetic click, it's out of ammo. Mashing the trigger more in a panic won't restore your ammo.
The Trabuco is a crime against the Huntsman and the universe. There's a possibility it'll kill either yourself, your crew, the target, or all of the above.
Don't be the captain found dead in a pit, legioned, with 600 brute and every bone in their body broken.
