You can catch thrown items by toggling on your throw mode with an empty hand active.
To crack a safe, use a stethoscope or three plastic explosives on it.
You can climb onto a table by dragging yourself onto one. This takes some time. Clicking on a table that someone else is climbing onto will knock them down.
You can drag other players onto yourself to open the strip menu, letting you remove their equipment or force them to wear something. Note that exosuits or helmets will block your access to the clothing beneath them, and that certain items take longer to strip or put on than others.
Clicking on a windoor rather then bumping into it will keep it open, you can click it again to close it.
You can spray a fire extinguisher, throw items or fire a gun while floating through space to change your direction. Simply fire opposite to where you want to go.
You can change the control scheme by pressing tab. One is WASD, the other is the arrow keys. Keep in mind that hotkeys are also changed with this.
Firesuits and winter coats offer mild protection from the cold, allowing you to spend longer periods of time near breaches and space than if wearing nothing at all.
Glass shards can be welded to make glass, and metal rods can be welded to make metal. Ores can be welded too, but this takes a lot of fuel.
If you need to drag multiple people either to safety or to space, bring a locker or crate over and stuff them all in before hauling them off.
You can grab someone by clicking on them with the grab intent, then upgrade the grab by clicking on them once more. An aggressive grab will momentarily stun someone, allow you to place them on a table by clicking on it, or throw them by toggling on throwing.
Holding alt and left clicking a tile will allow you to see its contents in the top right window pane, which is alternative to right clicking.
The resist button will allow you to resist out of handcuffs, being buckled to a chair or bed, out of locked lockers and more. Whenever you're stuck, try resisting!
You can move an item out of the way by dragging it and then clicking on an adjacent tile with an empty hand.
You can recolor certain items like jumpsuits and gloves in washing machines by also throwing in a crayon.
When in doubt about technicial issues, clear your cache (byond launcher > cogwheel > preferences > game prefs), update your BYOND, and relog.
Most things have special interactions with your middle mouse button, alt, shift, and control click. Experiment!
You can screwdriver any non-chemical grenade to shorten fuses from 5 seconds, to 3 seconds, to 1 second, to instant boom! Nobody ever expects this.
If you find yourself in a fistfight with another player, staying on the offensive is usually the smart move. Running away often won't accomplish much.
Different weapons have different strengths. Some weapons, such as spears, floor tiles, and throwing stars, deal more damage when thrown compared to when attacked normally.
A thrown glass of water can make a slippery tile, allowing you to slow down your pursuers in a pinch.
We were all new once, be patient and guide new players in the right direction.
On most clothing items that go in the exosuit slot, you can put certain small items into your suit storage, such as a spraycan, your emergency oxygen tank, or a flashlight.
Most job-related exosuit clothing can fit job-related items into it, such as the atmospheric technician's hardsuit/winter coat holding an RPD, or labcoats holding most medicine.
If you're using hotkey mode, you can stop pulling things using H.
If there's something you need from others, try asking! This game isn't singleplayer and you'd be surprised what you can get accomplished together!
You'll quickly lose your interest in the game if you play to win and kill. If you find yourself doing this, take a step back and talk to people - it's a much better experience!
Don't be afraid to ask for help, whether from your peers or from mentors.
As the Captain, you have absolute access and control over your ship, but this does not mean that being a horrible person won't result in mutiny and a ban.
A medical  hardsuit can hold an entire medkit in its suit storage!
While both heal toxin damage, the difference between charcoal and dylovene is that charcoal will actively remove all other reagents from one's body, while dylovene only removes various toxins - but can overdose.
You can surgically implant or extract things from people's chests using either organ manipulation or cavity implant surgeries. This can range from putting in a bomb to pulling out an alien larva.
Using disarm attempt will intentionally fail a surgery step.
Corpses with the "...and their soul has departed" description no longer have a ghost attached to them and aren't revivable or clonable.
Treating plasmamen is not impossible! Salbutamol stops them from suffocating and showers or stasis beds stop them from burning alive. You can even perform surgery on them by doing the procedure on a roller bed under a shower.
You can extract implants by holding an empty implant case in your offhand while performing the extraction step.
There are dozens of chemicals that can heal, and even more that can cause harm. Experiment!
Some chemicals can only be synthesized by heating up the contents with a chemical heater or manually with lighters and similar tools.
You can recharge a chemical dispenser with an inducer or by replacing its cell.
Water and Potassium mixed together will create an explosion, with power scaling by amount used. Don't do it.
You can take AIs out of their cores by loading them into an intelliCard, which lets you see their laws, It can also be placed into an AI system integrity restorer computer to revive and/or repair them.
You can repair your cyborgs with a welding tool if they have brute damage, if they have burn damage, you can remove their battery, expose the wiring with a screwdriver and replace their wires with a cable coil.
You can reset a cyborg's module by cutting and mending the reset wire with a wire cutter.
You can augment people with cyborg limbs. Augmented limbs can easily be repaired with cables and welders.
As a AI, you can click on people's names to look at them. This only works if there are cameras that can see them.
As a AI, you can quickly open and close doors by holding shift while clicking them, bolt them when holding ctrl, and even shock them while holding alt.
As a AI, you can take pictures with your camera and upload them to newscasters.
As a AI, you can use CTRL + 1-9 to set a location hotkey for your camera, allowing you to save the location and jump to it at will. Tilde and zero will return you to the last spot you jumped from, and the numpad numbers act as aliases to the regular number keys.
As a Cyborg, choose your module carefully, as only cutting and mending your reset wire will let you repick it. If possible, refrain from choosing a module until a situation that requires one occurs.
As a Cyborg, you are immune to most forms of stunning, and excel at almost everything far better than humans. However, flashes can easily stunlock you and you cannot do any precision work as you lack hands.
As a Cyborg, you are impervious to fires and heat.
As a Cyborg, you are extremely vulnerable to EMPs as EMPs both stun you and damage you.
As a Service Cyborg, your spray can knocks people down. However, it is blocked by masks and glasses.
As an Engineering Cyborg, you can attach air alarm/fire alarm/APC frames to walls by placing them on the floor and using a screwdriver on them.
As a Medical Cyborg, you can fully perform surgery and even augment people.
You can rename areas or create entirely new ones using your ship expansion permit.
The chief engineer’s hardsuit is significantly better than other engineering hardsuits. It has the best features of both engineering and atmospherics hardsuits - boasting nigh-invulnerability to radiation and all atmospheric conditions.
The supermatter shard is an extremely dangerous piece of equipment: touching it will disintegrate you. So will touching it with telepathy.
Wire "nodes" (big, seemingly unconnected bulges from half completed wiring jobs) are able to do several things: link up thrusters to prechargers, hook up PACMAN generators, and shock grilles among other things.
You can cool a supermatter crystal by spraying it with a fire extinguisher. Only for the brave!
You can repair windows by using a welding tool on them while on any intent other than harm.
A RCD can be reloaded with metal, glass or plasteel sheets instead of just compressed matter cartridges.
You can unwrench a pipe regardless of the pressures of the gases inside, but if they're too high they can burst out and injure you!
ATMOS holofan projector blocks gases while allowing objects to pass through. With it, you can quickly contain gas spills, fires and hull breaches. Beware, they wear off after an amount of time highlighted by numbers on the fans.
You can change the layer of a pipe by clicking with it on a wrenched pipe or other atmos component of the desired layer.
Books can be turned into a container that can store small items using wire cutters, bibles have this ability without needing to cut it.
You can hack the MegaSeed Vendor to get access to more exotic seeds. These seeds can alternatively be ordered from a express console
You can mutate the plants with unstable mutagen or, as an alternative, grow glowshrooms for their radium which also mutates plants to start you up!
While growing plants you should look into increasing the potency of your plants. This increases the size, amount of chemicals, points gained from grinding them in the biogenerator, and lets people know you are a proficient botanist.
You can create a very wide variety of food with the crafting menu. You can find it by looking for the hammer icon near your intents.
You can rename custom food with a pen.
Any cooked food will be much healthier than the junk food found in vendors.
Most non-custom foods will have a secondary effect, ranging from healing you to making you move at lightspeed. Experiment!
Mousetraps can be used to create bombs or booby-trap containers.
Every monster has a pattern you can exploit to minimize damage from the encounters.
You can harvest goliath plates from goliaths and upgrade your explorer's suit, mining hardsuits as well as Firefighter APLUs with them, greatly reducing incoming melee damage.
You can craft a variety of equipment from the local fauna. Bone axes, lava boats and ash drake armour are just a few of them!
As a Drone, you can ping other drones to alert them of areas in need of repair.
As a Ghost, you can see the inside of a container on the ground by clicking on it.
As a Ghost, you can double click on just about anything to follow it. Or just warp around!
You can swap floor tiles by holding a crowbar in one hand and a stack of tiles in the other.
When hacking doors, cutting and mending a "test light wire" will restore power to the door.
When crafting most items, you can either manually combine parts or use the crafting menu.
Suit storage units not only remove blood and dirt from clothing, but also radiation!
Remote devices will work when used through cameras. For example: Bluespace RPEDs and door remotes.
You can light a cigar on a supermatter crystal.
Using sticky tape on items can make them stick to people and walls! Be careful, grenades might stick to your hand during the moment of truth!
In a pinch, stripping yourself naked will give you a sizeable resistance to being tackled. What do you value more, your freedom or your dignity?
Wearing riot armor makes you significantly more effective at performing tackle takedowns, but will use extra stamina with each leap! It will also significantly protect you from other tackles!
As the Captain of your vessel, do not neglect the responsibilities of your command. You are the anchor the crew is expected to rely upon, and not being present or authoritative will hurt the experience.
As a vessel's second in command, you have the unique position of being able to temper the behaviour of the Captain. Obey their orders, but do not be afraid to offer your own advice or shoulder some of command's responsibilities.
It is highly ill-advised to run off on your own while exploring. Many ruins and planets are perilous and a match for even experienced players, and having someone to watch your back will save you a lot of trouble.
More often that not, most ships will be apply-only. Don't be afraid to read the memo and try for an application, many captains simply want to curate a certain type of behaviour aboard their vessels.
Captaining is one of the best ways to curate a faction. Set standards, distinguish yourself and your crew, and keep them engaged, and they'll be coming back not only to your ship, but also to the faction.
Most improvised ways of providing medical aid or reviving the dead can be slow or dangerous to the person if you or your character are inexperienced with medicine. Don't be afraid to call for a medical ship if the situation is dire.
In the event most or all of your crew is incapacitated or dead, don't be afraid to ahelp to ask for a distress call. They'll be happy to get you back into the round and the medical ships will be happy as well.
Don't be afraid to ahelp if you're unsure about another player's conduct. If they're making you uncomfortable or hurting the experience, the admins would be happy to sort things out.
Many plants on sand and lava worlds are medicinal, and can stretch your supplies.
For higher tier drill contracts, its recommended to bring a toolbox, spare stock parts, and plasteel if you're not confident in your abilities. The drill is prone to running low on power or needing to be repaired if damaged.
Many weapons can get sawed off, hurting their accuracy and occasionally ammo capacity but wildly compacting them. Hunter's Pride shotguns, the Flaming Arrow, the Illestren, among others, are included.
Static anomalies will cause brain damage in close proximity. Minimize contact with them.
Gravitational anomalies (thronglers) can quickly kill if they're intense. Sometimes, a chair can be used to get close to neutralize them, but do so at your own risk. They cause heavy brute damage.
Certain anomalies like heartbeat, vein, jumper, or plasmasoul anomalies can interact with you through walls. Be careful docking to worlds with anomalies.
Safe speed for carp migrations are under 2 GM/s, for asteroids are below 3 GM/s, and for dust is below 7 GM/s. There is no safe speed for electrical storms, you need full grounding rod coverage.
You can sometimes minimize damage from electrical storms by turning off lights and preventing all source of passive light from touching the outside of the vessel. It is notoriously gimmicky, though, do so at your own risk.
Dwarf legions tend to try and run back towards you if you're too far away. Lure them in for an attack by withdrawing before they retreat again.
Brimdemons oftentimes will strike you with a single melee attack before fleeing for another beam. Back away once they're done firing to minimize chip damage.
You can examine someone twice to see which limb they're bleeding from, to administer gauze or sutures.
Vox are allergic to Ephedrine, Atropine, Epinephrine, Mannitol, Antihol, and Stimulants. Not lethal in small amounts, but it is recommended to purge these reagents if you've made a mistake.
Grinded iron or iron pills from oxygen deprivation kits can be used to slowly regenerate blood in living people, if your blood supplies are thin.
Crystal goliaths, elite mobs, and ancient goliaths give research points on dissection, varying from 5000 to 40000 depending on technology and mob.
Crystal legions and crystal goliaths are extremely dangerous up close. Try and eliminate them quickly from range with powerful firearms.
The smaller the vessel, the more throttle will effect your acceleration. If you're piloting a subshuttle, it's recommended to keep low throttle and adjust to your liking.
Plasma thrusters can allow for extreme speed, but it is recommended to conserve them. You can minimize fuel consumption by using them in small bursts with a low throttle before turning them back off.
Jackhammers can be used to quickly break down walls for breaching or salvage.
Blast doors can be taken apart for a fair amount of plasteel, if you're hurting on fuel.
Kepori have an innate ability to tackle. It can take the enemy off guard, but recommend a helmet if you're using it near walls or prone to miss.
Laser and energy weapons have a cell that can be removed with a screwdriver. If you're removing a cell from a weapon that is not in your hand (on a suit storage slot, for example), the cell will go into your hand instead of the ground.
Frontiersmen clothes and Ramzi Clique rusted red hardsuits are established pirate equipment, and you're likely to be fired upon if you wear them. Use at your own risk.
You can access the black market by building an uplink with a handheld radio, analyzer, and scanning module. It tends to have a random selection of unique items at highly varied prices. You can purchase a LTSRBT from the outpost for a more convenient delivery.
Most armour sets outside of hardsuits do not cover the limbs. Give yourself an advantage by firing on someones legs or arms to slow them down or shoot out their weapon.
You can remove prosthetics or IPC / FBP limbs with prosthetic removal surgery, even on yourself.
You can early eject the en bloc of Illestrens by not firing the last round and clicking on the rifle with your empty hand to take it out manually, for a fast and tactical reload.
The HP Shadow cannot reload all rounds at once with a speedloader, it must be reloaded one round at a time.
You can make an emergency landing by docking to an empty space if you've lost control of your speed or are about to crash into hazards.
It is safe to cross over the tile the system sun is on. Trust me, I've tried.
Acid tiles and acid from anomalies can be sprayed off with fire extinguishers.
You can extinguish yourself without walls nearby by clicking the tile you're on with your extinguisher.
It's wise to carry a pocket extinguisher on sand and lava worlds, for acid and lava respectively.
Directional firelocks can quickly minimize pressure loss from holofield failures, if your vessel lacks them.
Holofields rely on extra power being on the wire net. Make sure power load is a fair bit higher than the draw so you don't get launched into vacuum.
Elzuose are able to heal a respectable amount of damage by rooting in soil or grass. It gives a sizable mood increase, as well as charging your battery.
If you're confused about the contents of an alcoholic drink bottle, you can examine to more often than not see what it contains on the label.
If you don't feel like grinding 500 basic power cells to make potassium, you can buy chemicals from the outpost in bulk.
You can synthesize most chems by clicking certain reagents with stock parts. Examples being Iodine to Bromine with a scanning module and water into 2:1 hydrogen / oxygen with a capacitor.
Perfluorodecalin in oxygen deprivation kits convert oxygen damage to toxin damage at a very effective ratio. Just know what you're doing and be prepared to administer anti-tox chems if it is a large amount of damage.
Epi-pens contain a small amount of formaldehyde, that prevents organs from decaying while they're in a body's system. Use it to give yourself more time while reviving.
Anomalies will give two frequencies when you analyze them, a primary and a secondary, unstable frequency. The primary will neutralize, and the unstable will more often than not cause an explosion or a similar negative effect.
Landmines have 4 wires; one disarms the mind, the other deactivates the pressure plate, another blows it up, and another blows it up on a delay.
You can tamper with landmines from range by pulsing the wires with signalers.
Not everyone is from their species' homeworld. It can be common for a human to have a Kalixcian or Teceian name, for example.
It can be fun to brainstorm new characters. Give it a shot, you might like it.
You can create entire new shuttles and subshuttles with a shuttle manipulator either from RND or from the outpost. It's usually resource and money-intensive, so be prepared!
Class 3 drills are incredibly dangerous alone or in small groups, even if you're experienced with mining and combat. Bring along a larger crew or call someone willing to help if you're thinking of taking them on.
Most smaller ships can be easily made immune to electrical storms if grounding rods are spaced out around the hull. You can make some quick money from rarely-taken storm contracts.
Ripleys are able to hold up to ten crates and other miscellaneous items like PACMAN generators using a hydraulic clamp. The scrapper's favourite.
Fights can be heavily in favour of the defenders if you play your cards right. Get good angles, turn off lights to give yourself cover, and be able to fire from multiple areas. More than likely, you'll know your environment better than the attacker.
Crate shelves can be used to maximize storage in your cargo bays. No more messes for you.
You can fashion cloth into a rag to clean up your vessel if you've tracked in some blood.
Some ships might prioritize characters exclusively from a faction in their memos, and that's okay! You can experiment with new characters to join, or join / captain another ship.
Moths, if their wings are intact, have full mobility in zero gravity environments that have an atmosphere.
Vox are near-unmatched in hand-to-hand fighting; their kicks deal extra damage and hurt organs.
IPC posibrains are contained in the chest, not the head.
Shiptest has uptime on Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays.
Exosuits are not as durable as they might feel, and it is still wise to take cover with them.
Turning on strafing mode on a mech for combat is wise, and allows you to keep your firing lines constantly on the enemy.
A Gygax's leg actuators drain the cell very quickly. Use sparingly.
Installing higher tier capacitors on mechs increases power efficiency on mech abilities, weapons, and idling.
